.TH TM 1 "2026-06-12" "tm 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tm \- interactive terminal UI for managing tmux sessions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tm
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tm
replaces the usual
.B tmux ls
\(->
.B tmux attach\fR/\fBtmux new
workflow with a keyboard-driven session manager. It lists all tmux sessions
with window count, attached status, last activity and working directory,
shows a live preview of the highlighted session's active pane, and lets you
attach, create, kill, rename and detach sessions with single keystrokes.
.PP
.B tm
detects where it runs: outside tmux, selecting a session attaches to it;
inside tmux (when
.B $TMUX
is set), it switches the current client instead. If no tmux server is
running, an empty state is shown and creating a session starts the server.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show usage and key bindings, then exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version, then exit.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
.SS Session list
.TP
.BR j / k ", arrow keys"
Move the cursor.
.TP
.B Enter
Attach to the selected session (outside tmux) or switch the current client
to it (inside tmux).
.TP
.B n
Create a new session; prompts for a name and an optional start directory.
.TP
.B d
Kill the selected session, after confirmation. An extra warning is shown
when killing the session you are currently inside.
.TP
.B r
Rename the selected session.
.TP
.B D
Detach all clients from the selected session.
.TP
.B p
Open the project sessionizer (see below).
.TP
.B /
Filter the session list while typing.
.B Escape
clears the filter,
.B Enter
jumps to the highlighted match.
.TP
.BR q ", " Escape
Quit.
.SS Project sessionizer
Lists the subdirectories of the configured project roots (default:
.IR ~/git\-projects ).
Selecting a project creates a session named after the directory, started in
that directory \(em or attaches to it if it already exists (marked with a
bullet). Characters that tmux forbids in session names
.RB ( . " and " : )
are replaced with underscores.
.SS Dialogs
.TP
.BR y / n
Confirm or decline kill and detach confirmations.
.TP
.B Escape
Cancel any dialog.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Optional configuration is read from
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/tmux-manager/config.toml
(default:
.IR ~/.config/tmux-manager/config.toml ).
All keys are optional; the defaults are:
.PP
.nf
.RS
[projects]
roots = ["~/git-projects"]

[sessions]
default_dir = "~"

[ui]
list_refresh_seconds = 2.0
preview_refresh_seconds = 2.0
.RE
.fi
.TP
.B projects.roots
Directories whose subdirectories appear in the sessionizer.
.TP
.B sessions.default_dir
Pre-filled start directory for new sessions.
.TP
.BR ui.list_refresh_seconds ", " ui.preview_refresh_seconds
Refresh intervals for the session list and the preview pane, in seconds.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TMUX
When set,
.B tm
assumes it runs inside tmux and switches clients instead of attaching.
.TP
.B TM_SOCKET
Route all tmux commands to an isolated server
.RB ( "tmux \-L <socket>" ).
Mainly useful for testing
.B tm
without touching your real sessions.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/tmux-manager/config.toml
Optional configuration file.
.SH EXAMPLES
Open the manager:
.PP
.RS
$ tm
.RE
.PP
Bind a key in
.I ~/.tmux.conf
to open
.B tm
as a floating popup over the current session:
.PP
.RS
bind S display-popup \-E \-w 80% \-h 75% tm
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tmux (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Eugen Hinz (https://github.com/cloudnutzer/tm)
